# An Elegant Puzzle Systems of Engineering Management
## Author: Will Larson
 
## General Quotes
- And they are guided by managers who are learning to lead, one unexpected lesson at a time. For many such people, the entry into engineering management begins with a crisis, and their training is a series of hard knocks.
- Organizational design gets the right people in the right places, empowers them to make decisions, then holds them accountable for their results. Maintained consistently and changed sparingly, nothing else will help you scale more.
- Organizational design is an attempt to understand why some create such energy and others create mostly heat: friction, frustration, and politics. I believe that excellent organizations grow from consistently applying a straightforward process.
- I've come to believe that the fundamental challenge of organizational design is sizing teams. You find yourself sizing teams during reorganizations, to accommodate growth from hiring, and when considering how to support new projects.
- **Coaches** Managers that support more than eight or nine engineers typically act as coaches and safety net for problems. They are too busy to actively invest in their team of their team's area of responsibility. It's reasonable to ask managers to support larger teams during the transition to a more stable configuration, but its a bad status quo.
- **Shared Rotations.** It is sometimes necessary to pool multiple team together to reach eight engineers necessary for a 24/7 on-call rotation. This is an effective intermediate step towards teams owning their own on-call rotations, but it is not a good long-term solution. Most folks find being on-call for components that they're unfamiliar with to be disproportionately stressful.
- ***When the team is falling behind.** Sometimes people attempt to capture more resources from the existing company, and I'm pretty negative on that. People are not fungible, and generally folks end up in useful places, so I'm skeptical of reassigning existing individuals to drive optimality. By nature, it's also impossible for this kind of discussion to not become political, even when everyone involved has deep trust in and respect for each other.
- **On a team falling behind** Many folks try to move all teams at the same time, peanut buttering their limited resources, but resist that indecision-framed-as-fairness: it's not a fair outcome if no one gets anything.
- Adding new individuals to a team disrupts that team's gelling process, so I've found it much easier to have rapid growth periods for any given team, followed by consolidated/gelling periods during which the team gels. The organization will never stop growing, but each team will.
- Sometimes you will want to grow faster than a gelled team allows, and that's okay. The lesson is that you have to account for re-gelling costs after periods of change, not that you should never change them. This is part of why my proposed model recommends rapidly hiring into teams loaded down by technical debt, not into innovation teams, which avoids incurring re-gelling costs on high-performing teams.
- It's best to do this slowly to maintain slack in the team, but if it's a choice of moving people rapidly or shifting scope rapidly, I've found that the latter is more effective and less disruptive.
- All real world systems have some degree of inherent self-healing properties: an overloaded database will slow down enough that someone fixes it, and overwhelmed employees will get slow at finishing work until someone finds a way to help.
- For every additional order of magnitude of engineers, you need to design and maintain a new layer of management.
- For every ~10 engineers, you need an additional team, which requires more coordination.
- Each engineer means more commits and deployments per day, creating load on your development tools.
- Most outages are caused by deployments, so more deployments drive more outages, which in turn require incident management, mitigations, and postmortems.
- Having more engineers leads to more specialized teams and systems, which require increasingly small on-call rotations so that your on-call engineers have enough system context to debug and resolve production issues. Consequently, relative time invested in on-call goes up.
- Most system-implemented systems are designed to support one to two orders' magnitude of growth from the current load. Even systems designed for more growth tend to run into limitations within one to two orders of magnitude.
- My favorite observation from The Phoenix Project by Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford is that you only get value from projects when they finish: to make progress, above all else, you must ensure that some of your projects finish.
- The second most effective time thief that I've found is ad hoc interruptions: getting pinged on HipChat or Slack, taps on the shoulder, alerts from your on-call system, high-volume email lists, and so on.
- The strategy here is to funnel interruptions into an increasingly small area, and then automate that area as much as possible. Ask people to file tickets, create chatbots that automate filing tickets, create a service cookbook, and so on.
- In my opinion, probably the most important opportunity is designing your software to be flexible. I've described this as "fail open and layer policy."; the best system rewrite is the one that didn't happen, and if you can avoid baking in arbitrary policy decisions that will change frequently over time, then you are much more likely to be able to keep using a system for the long term.
- Finally, a related antipattern is the gatekeeper pattern. Having humans who perform gatekeeping activities creates a very odd special dynamics, and is rarely a great use of a human's time. When at all possible, build systems with sufficient isolation that you can allow most actions to go forward. And when they do occasionally fail, make sure that they fail with a limited blast radius.
- p. 51
